# Gender

Men and women.

1. [General thoughts](#1-general-thoughts).
1. [Am I a feminist?](#2-am-i-a-feminist)
1. [What I think feminism gets wrong](#3-what-i-think-feminism-gets-wrong).
1. [Being sexist](#4-being-sexist).
1. [&ldquo;Rape culture&rdquo;, trigger warnings, microaggressions](#5-rape-culture-trigger-warnings-microaggressions).
  1. [Rape](#51-rape).
1. [The use of language](#6-the-use-of-language).
1. [On taking offence](#7-on-taking-offence).
1. [The situation of men in secular, liberal democracies](#8-the-situation-of-men-in-secular-liberal-democracies).

## 1. General thoughts

When discussing gender roles, feminism, sexism, etc, I think that the **setting** is extremely important (and that is the first thing that should be agreed upon
by everyone participating on a debate).

The situation of women (and men) in, say, Muslim Africa and North-West Europe, are so different that the same principles do not necessarily apply.
I think a big deal of the confusion, clashes and offence generated by this debate stems from overlooking that fact.

I agree with classical feminist principles and actions where women are clearly discriminated, dominated, disenfranchised.

But I oppose feminism (classical or otherwise) in all places where *any* of these statements are true:
* Where women face no significant disadvantages overall.
* Where those disadvantages are marginal, or restricted to a few specific aspects.
* Where those disadvantages are, at the present time, being overcome at a rapid pace and increasingly condemned by public opinion.
* Where women are favoured over men overall.

## 2. Am I a feminist?

As I said above, it depends *where*.

In places where women are unjustly oppressed, I am a feminist.
Where a radical stance is necessary to endorse progress, feminism is justified.
There are still many areas of the world where feminism is necessary, as one of the answers to obscurantism.

What about liberal, secular, developed democracies?
Am I a feminist in Spain, Italy, England, the US?

I sincerely don't know.

My knee-jerk reaction is to say: &ldquo;No. Of course not.&rdquo;
Why would *anyone* want to align themselves with any movement that favours one portion of society over another, starting *right from the name of the movement
itself*?

## 3. What I think feminism gets wrong

The aspects of modern mainstream feminism that I may agree with are mostly inheritance of older, less exclusive philosophies: humanism, englightenment,
secularism, egalitarianism, liberalism&hellip;

If we took modern politically-correct feminism and got rid of the horrible inclinations some of us see in it today, I would happily join its ranks.
But then, *it would not be &ldquo;feminism&rdquo; any more*&nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;we would call it &ldquo;progressivism&rdquo;, &ldquo;egalitarianism&rdquo; or
simply &ldquo;not being misogynistic&rdquo;.

Those negative aspects, by they way, would be:

* Victimism.
  Negation of the agency of adult women.
  Patronising attitudes.
* A sense of entitlement (related to the one above).
  Attacks on merit-based systems and on the rewards of work.
  Being judgemental with respect to life decisions of other women (eg, towards those who decide to have children, or *not* to have children).
* Blindness to the problems of men, and the aspects of life where the State and society treats them wrong.
* Misandry.
* Classism (&ldquo;white middle-class women&rdquo;).
* Racism (*Id.*).
* Contempt for science; in particular for biology and evolutionary psychology.
  Negation of any innate differences between men and women with regards to their objects of interests, priorities in life, instincts, abilities, thought
  patterns and behaviours.
  Hypocritical negation of the existence of a &ldquo;male brain&rdquo; and a &ldquo;female brain&rdquo; when that suits some naively egalitarian agenda, and at
  the same time appeals to the inherent evil/inferior/violent/selfish nature of the male psyche and the gentle/mature/compassionate/refined attributes of the
  female one.
* Behaviourism, when they so much defend the theory of the &ldquo;tabula rasa&rdquo; against all odds (related to the one above).
* Hostility towards sex.
  Simplistic, unrealistic analyses of prostitution and pornography.
  Unilateral and radical framing of abortion, as a &ldquo;right&rdquo; of women where fathers and other men are to be completely ignored, as just another aspect
  of &ldquo;female health&rdquo;, as a bodily matter, as something that falls solely within the jurisdiction of their bodies.
  Their troubled relationship with the ideas of beauty, feminity, sexiness, attractiveness, lust, masculinity.
* Moral relativism (eg, in some disturbing and conflicting views on the *hijab*, the *burqa*, female genital mutilation).
* Misplacement of the focus towards the insignificant (eg, innocuous peculiarities in human languages, quaint &ldquo;gentlemanly&rdquo; habits, *bona fide*
  comments or praise from men towards women).
* Political correctness.

I sympathise with many of the opinions of the self-proclaimed feminist :bust_in_silhouette:**Camille Paglia**.
She is on record since the early nineties at least (probably before) fericiously attacking the same set of bogus tenets that are so alarming today.
See [this interview from 1992](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIomA2MQNI4).

More recently, I like the views of :bust_in_silhouette:**Christina Hoff Sommers** and a few other &ldquo;alternative feminists&rdquo;.

The existence of some misogynistic, regressive, apologetic types (:bust_in_silhouette:**Mike Buchanan**) and those hateful so-called &ldquo;pick-up
artists&rdquo; (:bust_in_silhouette:**Julien Blanc**, :bust_in_silhouette:**Roosh Valizadeh**) is a disgrace for those of us who are criticising
feminism in a serious, constructive way.
Those guys often *do* have a point when they talk about sexism affecting men too, and about biological differences between men and women playing a huge role.
Also, it is refreshing that they speak frankly about sex and about working on techniques to get sex from women, changing their behaviour and what they say to
those women (there is nothing immoral in wanting sex&nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;and just sex&nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;from another person; and there is nothing immoral about
modulating our demeanour and *not* disclosing our real thoughts and intentions in order to get other people to like us, be nicer to us and do things for
us&nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;we do it all the time).
But it is clear by listening to them, and by reading what they write on the internet, that most of them also harbour really immoral attitudes towards women;
misogynistic, degrading, at times bordering on the violent.

## 4. Being sexist

I think most of us are at least somewhat sexist (and at least somewhat racist, xenophobic, ageist, aspectist&hellip;).
At a personal level, discriminating certain groups of people (or put it in another way: *favouring certain groups of people) seems to make complete sense.
There are all kind of practical reasons, which have nothing to do with bigotry, to feel more empathetic towards, and to be nicer to, people who are like us.

Since that seems true, deciding what forms of sexism are acceptable, and to what degree, is not a trivial question.
(Again, the same argument applies to other forms of group discrimination).

However, this only works at the level of individuals&nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;social norms, and laws, can't be prejudiced in the same way.

## 5. &ldquo;Rape culture&rdquo;, trigger warnings, microaggressions

### 5.1. Rape

There is a disonance between how wrong certain acts feel (how immoral they seem) and how worried society is about them happening,

I think most people would agree that murder is a far worse crime than rape or physical violence.
However, we seem much more concerned about the portrayal of rape in works of fiction and in the mass media than we are about violence or murder.
Kids nowadays see *way more instances* of people killing other people, and people torturing or beating other people, than people *raping* other people.

Violence, torture, cruelty and assasinations are ubiquitous in TV, film and videogames.
Violence is *the* basis for so much of contemporary popular culture (many videogames; products about &ldquo;super-heros&rdquo;; products about cops, spies, the
military, wars; action films&hellip;).

Those forms of murder or extreme violence happen, interestingly, usually between male characters.

And still, there is public outcry whenever a remotely realistic of detailed scene of rape appear on those media.

Why is that?

It does not add up, from a moral point of view.

I suspect this has to do with these factors:
* The WAW (&ldquo;Women Are Wonderful&rdquo;) effect.
* Misandry.
  (&ldquo;Well, it is a fact: men do kill each other.
  They are that stupid!
  It can't be helped.
  If *male* videogame designers and *male* videogame players want it that way, let them have it.&rdquo;)
* :point_right:[Political correctness](economics.md#economics).

## 6. The use of language

\[Pending.\]

## 7. On taking offence

\[Pending.\]

## 8. The situation of men in secular, liberal democracies

\[Pending.\]
